Abstract
--------

The benefits of creating small earth dams for retaining water, both surface and
subsurface, are multiple. The reserved water can be used for domestic and agri-
cultural applications. Natural ecosystems will benefit as a result of the
improved hydrological conditions, often helping to halt or reverse
desertification by slowing down the large water cycle and preventing water
runoff in the rainy season. Im- proved water retention improves conditions in
drought-affected ASAL regions and lifts the burden of water carrying from
women, allowing more time for family and education. (Holzer 2012; Ulbig 2014;
Stephens 2010).

This research examines the application of the geographical sciences and GIS as
a methodology for assessing models of small earth dams with regard to their
utility in retaining water for community use and conservation. Building on the
work of a number of researchers, it proposes a GIS-based solution for
estimating the scale of earthworks, reservoir volumes, watershed extent and dam
construction risk. By formulating these concerns into a single procedural
model, it is hoped that students and designers can use this work to accompany
the decision making process during site selection and cost/benefit analysis. By
comparing this GIS-based model with prior research and guideline formulae from
the literature, the accuracy and effectiveness of this model can be evaluated.

Additionally, this paper is intended to be of use as a manual to students who
wish to learn more about the development of the tool, with a view to enabling
further research and understanding of the spatial analysis procedures described
therein. Attention is given to the process of acquiring and preparing source
data, with the intention that local elevation data can be sourced and imported
into the solution. By utilising open source GIS technologies such as PostGIS,
Mapnik and Leaflet, it is demonstrated how such a tool can be developed for the
open web, and the output of this project includes a working, open sourced web
based tool for designing landscapes of small earth dams.


Requirements
------------

PostGIS

Mapnik


Starting Simdam
---------------

npm install

grunt serve


Help
----

Please contact me @EcoHacker if you want more details about this project



